So what are "React Hooks"?
If you come completed this course
before I updated it entirely in 2021
or if you finished some upper React resource,
which did not focus
on "React Hooks" and Functional Components,
then you don't know about React Hooks, but you do know
that there are two main ways of building React Components.
You can build Functional Components
and you can build Class-based Components.
Now, Functional Components, historically
without React Hooks were limited to outputting content.
You could only use Functional Components
for outputting something.
They received props and returned JSX.
You were not able to change some internal state
in those components in the past.
Nowadays you are, but in the past, this was not possible.
That's why we had two different ways of building Components.
That's why we had Class-based Components
and we still have those by the way.
You can still write Class-based Components
and there is nothing wrong with that.
But with the React Hooks, you actually don't need to
create Class-based Components anymore.
But in the past, we had to do that because
in the past only Class-based Components could contain
and manage "state," which of course is important
to change what your application shows on the screen.
But the downside with Class-based Components was
and is that they have more overhead,
more extra code than Functional Components.
Functional Components are very lean.
It's just a function that returns JSX,
Class-based Components need a constructor
maybe to initialize a state.
You might add extra life cycle methods and therefore
Class-based Components can quickly grow in size.
They also suffer from other potential problems,
but they definitely are more code to write
than Functional Components.
But because Class-based Components were the only kind
of Components that could manage "state,"
you had to convert Functional Components
to Class-based Components
if you wanted to manage "state," or if you wanted to
add lifecycle methods prior to React 16.8,
but with the release of React version 16.8 in 2018,
React Hooks were introduced
and React Hooks is a feature
that now allows you to manage "state"
in Functional Components and to kind of
add life cycle methods stair as well.
And I'm going to teach you all about React Hooks
throughout this module.
But as mentioned of course, if you already know
what React Hooks are because you completed
the most recent version of this course
up to this point, then you don't need this module.
Now React Hooks are just special JavaScript functions
provided by React.JS
though you can also write your own hooks
and you will see this as
well in this course section.
And these special functions can only be called
and used therefore in Functional Components.
You can't use React Hooks in Class-based Components.
Now, to mark those special functions so
that you don't accidentally use them in the wrong place,
they all start with the "use" word.
The built in React Hooks are all called useState,
useEffect, useRef, and so on.
And if you build your own custom hooks,
they also have to be named like this
as you will see later in this module.
Now these extra functions when called
in your Functional Components, then add extra functionality,
extra capabilities to your Functional Components.
For example, with the useState hook,
you can add the functionality to manage
and change state in a Functional Component.
And that's why React Hooks are amazing because with them,
you don't need to switch
between Functional and Class-based Components.
Instead, you can build your entire React application
with Functional Components only.
And in this course section,
we're now going to dive into all those built in hooks,
how to use them and how they work.
And we're also going to learn
how to write our own custom hooks.